---
layout: post
title:  "5 Reasons Not to Work Remotely"
date:   2014-12-02 02:35:14
categories: jekyll update
permalink: 5-reasons-not-to-work-remotely
author: Joey Flores
blurb: Joey Flores is a 15 year internet marketing veteran and co-founder of Y Combinator-funded Earbits Radio.
avatar: http://techzulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/joey_flores_150x150.png
excerpt: 
---

I've just spent the past five years working from home as my co-founder Yotam and I built our company, Earbits.  Like most people, I used to dream of working from home, having total flexibility, wearing whatever I want, not having to commute, taking breaks mid-day to run errands, and all of the other awesome reasons why it's nice working remotely.  Five years later, my social life has dwindled, my company doesn't have the culture I wish it did, and my personal life and professional life blur so drastically together that it's hard to have a personal experience without work finding its way into it, and hard to work without personal things distracting me.  Though I am sure it is awesome for some people, there are several reasons why I no longer want to work remotely.

## 1. As a leader, I have struggled to build the culture I want remotely.

I'm a person who thrives on the energy of others, and I'm a manager who inspires people through my enthusiasm, rapid pace of execution, salesmanship, clarity of vision and happy, friendly demeanor.  I think I can honestly say that any employee I managed at my former job would work for me again in a heartbeat.  We used to go out after work several times a week and many of my colleagues from that period are still my best friends.  At the office, my team would come to me frequently for help, advice, and to jump into and save a situation with a client.  Having me be able to help them side by side every day made them more effective contributors.

Certainly, there is nobody but me to blame for not figuring out how to work more effectively from home, but I've found after doing so that my team often did not know what the company was focused on, they did not understand the product as well as I would like them to, and suffered other issues stemming from a lack of communication.  They are enthusiastic about what we do because they believe in the vision, but it's not at all the same as when you are in the office everyday, listening to me on the phone closing partnerships, seeing the white boards with plans for new features, getting to know the other team members and managers, and so on.  Yes, I could hold more frequent skype meetings, or send out more updates via email.  Certainly a good remote manager (Yotam included) could say that this is nobody's fault but mine (Led Zeppelin also said that).  However, not only is trying to do those things via email and skype more time consuming, it's not my style and I still don't think it breeds the kind of camaraderie that I have experienced at jobs where you're working side by side with your team everyday.  We have had employees who hadn't even met each other after working together for months or even a year or more.  It's nothing like the brother- and sisterhood we developed at the last company I worked at in an office.

## 2. From home, I can't do an effective job of developing my team professionally.

One of the reasons most of my former employees love to work for me is that I would help them become better professionals and work with them on achieving their goals within, and outside, of the company.  This includes sitting down and teaching them Excel, getting on numerous calls with their clients and showing them how to answer tough questions, walking them through sales techniques, helping them create a client-specific pitch, and so on.  I would push them to do the things I know they can, and jump right into a project and help them with things that were new and needed to be learned.  And when it was time for them to move on to new things, I would help them with their resumes, introductions to other companies and more.

I still try to develop the employees I manage remotely but the value is greatly diminished.  They might forward a tough email from a client and see my response, but they miss out on the conversation right after a call where I can coach them on how to handle that better in the future.  I could call them and walk them through this, but since all of our team works remote and sets their own hours, many times they're not home or available, and I'd have to schedule something in order to have that conversation with them.  It ends up not happening.  Most times, I just opt to keep answering the tough questions myself, and they miss out on the learning.

## 3. There is no escape from my work life at home, or from my home life at work.

It seems like it's going to be super convenient to work from home and be able to throw a load of laundry in while you're working, or to only have to commute 8 feet from the bed to the desk.  I find, though, that being at home opens up a lot of opportunities to be distracted by personal things while I'm working.  Doing laundry seems productive, but when you get up mid-project to put your clothes in the dryer, you come back to the desk with a distracted mind and have to get back on track.  Yes, again, there are ways to work around these things but they require an extra level of discipline that most people don't have.  Whether it's Jehova's witnesses at the door or the nagging cry of your comfortable bed asking you to just lay down for a moment, being at home with no accountability for staying focused invites decreased productivity.  When I am at work in the office, I work 95% of the time.  When I am at home, I am confident I don't.

Not only do personal matters distract me from work when I am at home, but work distracts me from enjoying my life.  When my commute is only 8 feet away, it's easy to go from relaxing and enjoying myself to answering an email that could wait until tomorrow.  Because we are such creatures of habit and I now spend 8+ hours per day sitting at my desk in my room, I now find that the default mode for being in my room is being at my desk, which makes relaxing after work very difficult.  As opposed to coming home from an office and feeling I've entered my sanctuary, I can barely tell the difference between sitting on my computer for work reasons, and sitting at it for any other reason, which means my relaxing time often feels like stressful work time.

## 4. Working from home changes the perception of your role and contribution.

When clients want to come by my office to meet, and arrive only to find they're in my house, it can be strange.  Sometimes it seems as though they feel they're intruding on my personal space.  I've even had people who said they'd come by the office then recommend a coffee shop after I tell them I work from home.  When people find out you work from home, they often assume you do less work, or less important work, or so it seems to me anyway.  "So, do you do this full time?"  They probably wouldn't ask if they saw our 14 employees.

It's even worse for employees trying to advance.  We have a number of employees who are key individual contributors, but I hesitate to move them up the ladder because I know how hard it is to manage people remotely, and I want my team and their managers to have stronger, more personal relationships than I believe can be developed over skype.  Frankly, working from home limits a person's potential to add value.  In particular, I am hesitant to hand out supervisory roles to people who are not going to be able to add value in the way I described above, by coaching their team, building camaraderie, and so on.


## 5. Working from home has killed my social life.

As a person who highly values work life balance, I am most disappointed that 5 years of working from home has all but destroyed my social life.  I used to go out with co-workers nearly every evening and build great friendships with them during the day.  They would bring their other friends and significant others to our social outings and I would become friends with them, too.  When someone on the team was throwing a party, or rounding up a group for paintball, of course every employee would know about it.  Seeing the same people day in and day out for 6 years turned those people into my best friends, and I just hung out with three of them last night, over half a decade after we stopped working together.

For the past 5 years, I have been out of sight out of mind for most people I know.  I still meet people I really like from time to time, and we might hang out once or twice.  When they're leaving work to grab a drink with friends, they don't think to hit me up.  Why would they?  That requires work.  It's much easier to just ask the folks sitting next to you.

Thanks to the wonders of social media, I get to see lots of location check-ins and fun photos of friends out doing things with their co-workers, but I'm not on speed dial for any of these people.  Simply put, it's already hard enough to make new friends when you're in your 30's and 40's.  Take workplace relationships out of the picture and your social life is all but non-existent.  Most marriages start in the workplace, and with the exception of a nice setup by a friend, I haven't dated anybody who I didn't meet in some bar.  That limits the quantity and quality of the dating pool for certain.


I have seen my co-founder, our CTO, and many other people do an outstanding job of working remotely.  Perhaps they're happy, too, but I tend to see the same issues as above affecting their lives, too.  Many of them make excellent individual contributors, and some of them make solid managers from the perspective of keeping their employees working hard.  However, building a company is much more than just keeping people working.  You want to build a culture, a family, and a team that thrives, not just works hard.  Though I have a lot of respect for people who work remotely and get their job done, I have yet to see a remote worker who can do for their company what I've been able to do when I am in the trenches every day with my team.